{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 CamingoDosPro-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10000\viewh16360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Notes from Hyderabad July Java NCR\
Matt and Ashok, pairing\
\
\
\
Techniques:\
Pairing: 1. At the outset of the pairing module, we had the teams divide into two groups of five. We had them brainstorm various objections to pairing (including their own personal ones). Then we had a representative from each group come to the whiteboard and together list their objections and read them aloud to the group. Then we had them return to their groups and come up with reasons TO pair, including specifically addressing the objections and repeated the process with them coming to the board. Much more effective way than lecturing through the slides, as they actually got excited about the "pro" reasons and owned them themselves.\
2. Showed tws-pairing-in-bangalore video\
\
Intros: 1. Since most of them knew each other, we had each person introduce the person to his or her left. A little different and more fun twist on the traditional self-intros.\
2. We had three different agile teams represented in the group. After they finished introducing themselves, we had them either pound the table rhythmically three times, clap three times or clap-clap-stomp. Fun and multi-sensory!\
\
Frequent show and shares: After each coding exercise we had a pair present their word. The group then offered suggestions for improvement, comments, etc.\
\
Energizers:\
Frequent breaks punctuated with yoga moves: We took more but shorter breaks. Each time we resumed, we had a different member of the group show us a yoga stretch, which we repeated.\
After lunch following the FizzBuzz TDD kata, we did an in-person version in which the group stands in a circle and counts 1, 2, Fizz!, 4, Buzz!, FizzBuzz!, 7, etc. When someone messes up, he or she sits down and the count continues until one person remains.\
\
Popcorn-style word recall: We did word recall first thing on Day 2 but had people stand or "pop up" when they spoke their recalled words. \
\
Day 3 morning energizer: Group ball toss and name follow game. \
1. Everyone stands in a circle.\
2. Facilitator tosses a ball (we used a ping pong ball) to someone.\
3. That person tosses to someone new, an so on. Each person who has had the ball holds up his or her hand to signify.\
4. When everyone has done it, throw ball back to facilitator, who restarts, and everyone throws to the person he threw it to the first time.\
5. When the group has the idea, the facilitator introduces a second ball, so the group has two balls in play at once.\
6. When the group does that, the facilitator introduces a second pattern. He says a fruit name (or we used Bollywood actors), then someone else follows, but in a different order from the one with the ball. \
7. After a round of the names, the facilitator starts the ball in motion, then waits a few seconds and says the first fruit name, thus starting the second order.\
\
It's a lot of fun and engages people in a physical as well as mental way.\
\
Retrospectives:\
Day 1: Three Ls\
Day 2: Futurespective -- had group divide into two groups and brainstorm events looking backward from two months from today at how things went as they adopted the practices we learned. They really got into it.\
\
To update/fix:\
* Pass in as parameters the path of the webapp folder\
* Upgrade Twist to 2.4 (latest)\
* Add screen mockups and/or acceptance criteria to the slides\
* Add a story (and code) for mocking module\
\
Feedback\
Course: Met expectations: 4.33\
Course: Rating: 4.10\
Recommend: Yes (10 of 10)\
Facilitators: Knowledge: 4.70\
Facilitators: Communication: 4.90\
Facilitators: Treated others fairly: 4.90\
Facilitators: Answered questions: 4.60\
}