{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red7\green57\blue200;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9240\viewh13280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf2 Slide 15: Valuing automation more than manual. While I see what you mean, I think for someone new it could send the wrong message. For me they're both equally valuable, I think you're referring to the necessity for automation rather than the value of it over manual.\
\
Neil Fletcher has written some QA manifesto statements {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://my.thoughtworks.com/blogs/neil/2011/03/09/agile-testing-manifesto"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 here}}, maybe worth reviewing that slide with his thoughts in mind?\
\
\
[Matt] Thanks -- good point, and thanks for Neil's blog post. In an effort to honor your point, I changed to "Automated and exploratory testing" over "scripted manual testing." Does that work?\
---------\
Slide 30: The testing types is always a big topic in the industry. How we define what we mean is the key more than what the name is, so maybe some info or examples on the differences between the system and functional and end to end tests would be good to explain? I see in the slide guide that there's no mention of System test, might be good to have a definition there in case someone asks.\
\
I say this because we spent months at a client trying to agree on names of types in order for us to then begin separating the blob that they presently had. I don't believe there is a 'Testing Level Naming Bible' so someone's functional might be another's system or acceptance or who-knows-what. \'a0\
---------\
Slide 39: Probably the first metric I always suggest when asked by people "Which metrics should I track?" is number of defects found in production. This ties in with the question on where most of them are found but might be a good example to track? The other examples are focused on the pre-release QA, I'm thinking of post as well. It may help also on making sure that, although we want to be proactive with QA, we also still need to track our progress post-deploy.\
---------\
Slide 96: Another reason why to automate is to have repeatable testing i.e. being able to run something and do the exact same thing again 6 months down the line. Feeds into the feedback statement but is probably an obvious benefit that doesn't receive as much notice as it could. This could go in slide 116 as well.\
---------\
A comment on the test automation section - should we describe a bit about user journeys? The statement about scripts having no more than 10 steps is good for acceptance tests, I'm thinking about the UAT/User Journey/E2E ones and whether it's worth having some description about them included?\
---------\
Slide 152: Worth putting in Verification of business case? I see "increase confidence" as relating more to making sure that the app doesn't crash when doing unusual things and will in general be robust. Verification of functionality is more concerned with "does this meet the business requirement for someone wanting to buy a book?" etc.\
}